The Joe Rogan experience. Yeah. What year is your nine 11? It's an 87.
That's a good year. That's we're built. We're doing a safari build.
What does that mean? Oh,
so you're making it like one of those off-road rally cars.
A rally rally car. Yeah, it's called, uh, the keen project.
My friend Lee keen is a reporsche racing driver and he built one for himself
and it is the most glorious thing I've ever driven. Oh,
and it's everything that you love about a nine 11 applies to this,
um, on loose surface. There it is. That's your car. That's not my car.
My car is going to look like that.
Although it will be a different color and have a roof rack and it'll be,
it'll be slightly, slightly different. That thing's crazy.
That actually is a Richard Tutle build from England.
He's if you look up' car keen, keen sari, K E E N.
And you'll see it closer to mine.
Tutle's the guy that made, uh, that crazy green card.
Oh, that's my, this is my video of driving Lee's car. Um,
and, uh, it is, see, look, I was fatter there.
Um, so it's just, wow. Drifty woods overte and,
and, you know, the, that,
that rear engine kind of snap back thing that everyone's all afraid of in nine
11, the pendulum thing. Yeah. Well,
you get that when you slide and then it catches and comes on a loose
surface. There's no catch. Oh, so you slide it,
but you don't have the scary snapback,
it just drifts and comes back and drift, you know, there's Lee,
he's building the thing. So.
It's probably really good to have a rear engine bias. It is look at the.
Real, it is the most controllable delight for,
and you've got four inches of extra suspension travel. So LA wow. Speed bumps,
ruts. Think about this in Los Angeles, right? So you gonna drive.
This rally car around LA? Yeah, yeah, yeah. <laugh>.
It's not a race car. It's a street car. Wow. It's a street car. Yeah. And then,
you know, that.
Looks like so much fun driving that in a dirt. Oh my God. We.
Have so desert here. No one cares. That's you go some Mirage there's trails.
Like there's no speed limits. Nobody gives a. I.
Gotta be honest.
There's two videos that made me get really interested in older Porsches.
One of 'em was the Chris Harris build with the thetu and another one was you
driving that project? Nasty car. Mm.
Joey Sealey. He's the local as well.
Yeah, that car, I was like, oh, that's it? Yep. That's it just like,
get it down to the raw dog.
Yeah. He took everything outta that car.
And richardtuddle who did Chris's car in England is like the rally, you know,
master. Um, he's like a there's there's a project nasty. Yeah. Um,
and there's Joey who built it and he.
Also, I love the little things he did,
like make the exhaust come through the rear bumper and those funky wheels on it.
And the fact there's no carpeting at all.
Like everything inside was stripped away.
His Instagram is emotion engineering and that car has been through a few changes
since this video was made. It looks a little different.
Now. Yeah. He changed the wheels, right. Different.
Wheels, uh, different, like there's a bunch of different stuff,
but it's amazing. And that guy, um, he used to be a part of this business,
BBI auto sport. He left to go start his own business emotion engineering.
And he is a master of chassy.
Setup. Yeah. I believe it. Yeah. That's a very, very impress.
It's a very interesting video.
And that's not like the highest horsepower vehicle, right? No.
It was really light though. It was, I think it was.
How many horsepower did it have if I.
Remember maybe 3 75, 3 80. I mean, it was, it was fast.
It was not a slouch at all, but, you know,
have you seen what singer is doing now with this air cooled engine? Yeah.
Yeah. It's crazy. Well,
you sent me that whole thing of the price difference between, uh, a,
a nine 11 engine air cooled engine. That's got 200 horsepower versus one.
That's got 500 horsepower. Yeah. And you're like, wow.
Yeah. The exponential curve of Porsche horsepower costs is.
Really scary stuff. The highest extend was $250,000. Yeah. So it.
Was like, okay, if you to, to buy an engine, right. Just an engine on a stand.
You want that engine. This is Porsche air cooled. So a Porsche engine for a,
a Porsche that is earlier than 95, 19 95, um,
300 horsepower is gonna run you about 40 grand.
And that's a ton of money for not a lot of horsepower.
400 horsepower will run you about a hundred grand.
I mean a hundred thousand. Wow. That's an engine on a stand, nothing else.
Right? You want 500 horsepower outta that motor it's $250,000 just.
For the engine, just for the engine. Why is that?
Cause that sounds so crazy in comparison to other cars, because.
A lot of techniques that you would use to make horsepower in a other cars,
you cannot apply to a Porsche engine. Oh,
you're limited on displacement size.
So it's not like you could shove like a nine liter V8 in there.
Like a 4.2 is about as big displacement
as you can get in that case.
And that's with like a stroker crank and board out.
So you're increasing both the length, the pistons move and the,
the size of the hole, um, to get to the 500 horsepower mark,
you have to run some highly experimental cylinder heads <laugh> and
singer to do that. I don't know if Chris has been on the show recently,
but he's working with singer to develop. Um, there's a company called Williams.
That is a formula one team.
They are developing the cylinder heads for singer.
So Chris Harris is a part of this role. He's doing.
Development, driving for them. Oh, that's great. Which is a.
Good decision, right? Oh, that's amazing decision. Yeah.
Plus the videos will be.
Epic. Right? So most of, uh, they're doing a four valve air. Cool.
Old head, which as far as I know, has never been done before all your,
your engine, my engine, all the art are two valve engines and,
and they're doing a four valve engine. So, um, it's.
Gonna cost a million and a half dollars. Well, the engine is 250.
Grand. This is why. Yes.
Yeah. It's so crazy.
Yeah. Custom cars are a million dollars now. Isn't that nuts. I mean,
you really want, if you really want something next level, it,
it can easily be a million nuts.
Jamie pull up that new singer. Nine 11.
Yeah. Singer nine 11, the William Williams engine. It's.
Green. Yeah. But it's got a lot of that. Um, what is,
who's the Japanese gentleman who takes those Porsche and R WB. Yeah. Yeah.
It's got a lot of that to it. Well.
Our so R WB is really interesting. Cause in Japan,
there's the singer on don't you think.
That's a God gorgeous car. Yeah.
But don't you think it's an odd choice to artificially, um, different stop,
please keep it. Oh, what kinda sexy that is to artificially differentiate.
Like the way he's got the fender flares. He's just, he's making like,
he had to glue 'em on. Oh, but the whole car's carbon fiber. Yeah.
So if the whole car's carbon fiber, why did, why did they fake?
Like they had like extensions of the way. I don't.
Wanna disappoint you,
but that is a rendering and not a picture of an actual car. Wow.
As far as I know, the actual car does not exist. That's so good.
And I think if I had to guess they put those over fender lines on
the rendering. So you would specifically notice that they have widened it. Oh,
that's. That could be,
if I had to guess the final car may not actually have a sea.
There. You know what, man? I'm I'm not mad if it does. It looks amazing. Jamie,
can you make that bigger again? But that looks so real.
That's crazy that that's not a photograph. Does that look like a.
Render to you? Jamie? I'm almost certain. That's not a real car right here.
Looks a little. I'm almost certain. It's not a real car.
The tire tire looks a little tire. Looks.
Fake, could be wrong. There could, there could be someone screaming at their,
whatever right now saying I'm wrong, but.
I'm'm pretty sure reflections in the windows. They're good at this. You.
Play crazy in the last three years. They're good at this dude.
<laugh> well play a.
Video game. I absolutely believe it. I'm not arguing against it.
I'm just saying it's so good. Yeah. But anyway, if they make a car like that,
holy. That's a gorgeous.
Car. Oh yeah. And they will, and it'll look like that, but it may not have,
those seems.
It's pretty similar to what their car looks like. It it', but wider.
It's not much different. Other than the, the wider I saw one of those,
it might have been the best looking car I've ever seen in my life.
It was a silver,
like a metallic silver mm-hmm <affirmative> like a bright silver singer. Yeah.
And, uh, it was online. Understated saw glorious. God.
See if you find that bright SI uh, silver singer, have.
You seen one in person before or close? Never dude. Your mind would be blown.
They have at a minimum,
minimum 45 or $50,000 of leather in one of those cars and the
interior,
the leather work in the interior of those cars is unbelievable beyond anything
from any manufacturer today. Really? Mm-hmm.
<Affirmative> uh, yeah, that's it. That's.
A sexy right there. God.
That's a good looking car.
Yep. That's very, very nice. What is it.
About certain shapes? Right's shapes? What.
Singer does is they distill, you know,
the best of each generation of car into one car. Yeah.
And so you're looking at a highly idealized, nine 11,
but you can't exactly picture what came from where and why. Yeah.
It's gangter and those folkss those wheels for whatever reason,
they just work mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
especially that green are mm-hmm <affirmative> those go back to that green card.
Jamie, they made 'em all they made. 'em real big on the green car. Yeah.
But the design works so well. There's the Williams engine. God.
Yeah. That looks good. Yeah. But like that's perfect. So.
Scroll down, Jamie, the, the Williams look at this. So, so you see,
look at the air intakes. That's where your rear windows would be.
So there no rear windows,
there are only those air intakes that go directly into the engine.
Cool. That furnace off.
That's no, not cooling. That's the actual air intake that get the,
into the combustion chamber. Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
The cooling it's air cooled.
So you see that silver kind of nipple on the right side.
There Uh-huh that's the center of the fan.
It gets cool in from the back there now.
Like this is basically the same size as a regular inline six or flat.
Straight flat six. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Roughly the engine itself is roughly the same size. Yeah.
So what they've done is just engineer it to the max. Oh.
Yeah. Well they have the,
they have what our theory are the most advanced cylinder heads ever put onto an
air. Cool. Nine 11. That.
Looks credible.
<laugh> and they're gonna stick that in a car that was originally what? 93?
Something like.
That. Yeah. Something like that. Yeah. 91 to 94. God.
Isn't it funny though,
that there's something unbelievably appealing about those air cooled
cars that is willing to have these rich people pay a million dollars or
least the current singer's a half million dollars for this car.
Just because you feel it more. Yeah. When you drive it,
it's just gotta feel to it that.
There's a certain kind of mechanical brilliance to it. That's really,
really you can't it's incomparable. Really? It's very unique. Yeah.
Well there's something about those old cars,
particularly the ones that don't have power steering. Huh? You just, you,
you get a thrill out of 'em.
There's a weird thrill even when you're not even driving fast.
Well, especially with a Porsche, when you,
when you have no power steering combined with front engine car, it sucks.
No power steering. When the engines in the back is okay.
Cuz the front of the car is pretty, is pretty light.
So you don't need too much muscle, but the nine 11 steering is just super,
super direct.
Yeah. It's super direct. And it's just, I don't know, man. It just,
it just feels like a different thing you're doing mm-hmm <affirmative>,
you know, I, I had a buddy that had a, uh, Volkswagen bug growing up.
Didn't have a lot of power in it, but those Volkswagen bugs, those things.
Like when you drive them around,
they give you a little smile on your face because you're driving like this
little tiny thing that feels completely connected with the road. Yeah.
It's not very capable, but it's like,
you're smiling when you drive one of those, it's like you.
Seen a little ride. The ultimate Volkswagen is they're taking in Germany.
They take the, uh, the buses, the micro buses and they, and they chop 'em down.
So they're, you know,
compressed and they put full Porsche floor pan drive, train <laugh>.
And so remember that 9 96 turbo you had the allwheel drive.
So they'll put that whole floor pan on a micro bus and they'll go to like
track days and beat on race cars. <laugh> it's crazy.